Federal Questions
1. A Member of Parliament from Montreal announces that she will spend her weekend in her electoral district. This means she would be:

In the part of Montreal where she was elected. (correct answer)

2. After a federal election, which party forms the new government?
The party with the most elected representatives is invited by the Governor General to become the party in power. (correct answer)

3. Approximately how many Canadians served in the First World War?

More than 600,000. (correct answer)
4. Canada has three territories and how many provinces?

10 (correct answer)

5. Fatima is a new immigrant in Canada. What law allows her to take a job at par with a man?
Equality of women and men (correct answer)

6. From where does the name “Canada” come from?

From "Kanata", the Huron-Iroquois word for village. (correct answer)
7. Give an example of how you can show responsibility by participating in your community.

Volunteer. (correct answer)
8. Give an example of where English and French have equal status in Canada.

In the Parliament of Canada. (correct answer)

9. Give the first line of Canada’s national anthem?
O Canada! Our home and native land! (correct answer)

10. How are Members of Parliament chosen?

Elected by Canadian citizens. (correct answer)

11. How are Senators chosen?

Senators are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
12. How does a bill become a law?

Approval by a majority in the House of Commons and Senate and finally the Governor General. (correct answer)

13. How is a Cabinet Minister chosen?

By the Prime Minister (correct answer)
14. How is the government formed after a federal election?

Ordinarily, the party with the most elected representatives becomes the party in power. The leader of this party becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)

15. How is the Prime Minister chosen?

The leader of the party with the most elected representatives becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)

16. In Canada, are you allowed to question the police about their service or conduct?

Yes, if you feel the need to. (correct answer)
17. In Canada’s justice system what does “presumption of innocence” mean?

Everyone is innocent until proven guilty (correct answer)
18. In the 1960s, Quebec experienced an era of rapid change. What is this called?

The Quiet Revolution. (correct answer)

19. In what industry do most Canadians work?

Service. (correct answer)

20. In which region do more than half the people in Canada live?
Central Canada. (correct answer)

21. Name all the federal political parties in the House of Commons and their leaders
Conservative (Poilievre), NDP (Singh), Liberal (Trudeau), Bloc Quebecois (Blanchet), Green Party (May) (correct answer)
Conservative (Poilievre), Green (May), Liberal (Trudeau), Bloc Quebecois (Duceppe)
NDP (Mulcair), Green (May), Liberal (Rae), Bloc Quebecois (Paillé)
Liberal (Ignatieff), Conservative (Ambrose), NDP (Turmel), Green (May)
22. Name six responsibilities of citizenship.
Getting a job, making money, raising a family, paying taxes, mowing your lawn, voting in provincial elections.
Voting in municipal elections only, joining a political party, getting a job, obeying the law, driving safely, picking up litter.
Caring for the environment, not littering, paying taxes, obeying the law, helping others, respecting others.
Obeying the law, taking responsibility for oneself and one's family, helping others in the community, voting in elections, serving on a jury, protecting and enjoying our heritage and environment. (correct answer)
23. Name the five regions of Canada
Midwest, North, South, East, Central
Maritimes, Ontario, Quebec, Prairies, and British Columbia
Atlantic, Central, Prairie, West Coast, and North (correct answer)
West, Central, East, Prairies, and Territories
24. Name three additional rights protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
Freedom of speech, Right to own land, and Right to a fair trial.
Mobility rights, Multiculturalism, and Aboriginal Peoples' rights. (correct answer)
Right to ski anywhere in Canada, Moving rights, and Right to public assembly.
Right to vote, Right to speak publicly, and Security rights.
25. Name two fundamental freedoms protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Freedom of conscience and religion, and Freedom of association. (correct answer)
Equality rights, and to care for Canada's heritage.
Basic freedoms, and obeying laws.
Aboriginal peoples' rights, and to volunteer.
26. Name two key documents that contain our rights and freedoms.
The Canadian Constitution and English common law.
Civil code of France and the Canadian Constitution.
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Magna Carta (the Great Charter of Freedoms). (correct answer)
Laws passed by Parliament and English common law.
27. Name two responsibilities of the federal government.
National defence and firefighting.
National defence and foreign policy. (correct answer)
Citizenship and highways.
Recycling and education.
28. Name two responsibilities of the provincial and territorial government.
Citizenship and Foreign Policy
Health and Education (correct answer)
Defense and Currency
Criminal Law and Interprovincial Trade
29. On what date did Nunavut become a territory?
July 1st, 1867
April 1st, 1999 (correct answer)
June 24th, 1995
March 31st, 1949
30. One third of all Canadians live in which province?
Quebec.
Ontario. (correct answer)
Northwest Territories.
Manitoba.
31. The Canadian Coat of Arms and motto is “A Mari Usque Ad Mare.” This means:
From the ocean to the sea.
From sea to sea. (correct answer)
From the sea to the ends of the earth.
From the water to the earth.
32. What are some examples of taking responsibility for yourself and your family?
Buying a house and a TV.
Getting a job, taking care of one's family and working hard in keeping with one's abilities. (correct answer)
Doing laundry and keeping the house clean.
Study hard so you can earn enough money to take a vacation.
33. What are the Prairie provinces and their capital cities?
Alberta (Edmonton) and Saskatchewan (Regina).
Alberta (Edmonton), Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg).
Saskatchewan (Regina), Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
34. What are the provinces of Central Canada and their capital cities?
Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
Quebec (Quebec City) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown).
Ontario (Toronto) and Quebec (Quebec City). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba Winnipeg).
35. What are the provinces of the Atlantic region and their capital cities?
Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown) and Quebec (Quebec).
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown). (correct answer)
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Quebec (Quebec).
Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Quebec (Quebec City)and Ontario (Toronto).
36. What are the territories of Northern Canada and their capital cities?
Alaska (Juneau) and Yukon Territory ( Whitehorse).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife) and Alaska (Juneau).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife).
Yukon Territory (Whitehorse), Northwest Territories (Yellowknife), and Nunavut (Iqaluit). (correct answer)
37. What are the three levels of government in Canada?
Federal, Provincial and Territorial, Municipal (local). (correct answer)
Federal, Provincial and City.
Federal, Territorial and Provincial.
Federal, State and Local.
38. What are the three main groups of Aboriginal peoples?
First Nations, Métis and Inuit. (correct answer)
Acadians, Métis and Inuit.
United Empire Loyalists, Métis and Inuit.
Inuit, Métis and Acadians.
39. What are the three main types of industry in Canada?
Natural resources, tourism and service industries..
Tourism, services and manufacturing.
Natural resources, tourism and manufacturing.
Natural resources, manufacturing and services. (correct answer)
40. What are the three parts of Parliament?
The Sovereign, Governor General and Prime Minister.
The House of Commons, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The King, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Sovereign, the House of Commons and the Senate. (correct answer)
41. What are the two official languages of Canada?
English and Métis.
Inuktitut and French.
English and French. (correct answer)
English and Inuktitut.
42. What country is Canada’s largest trading partner?
Mexico.
United States of America. (correct answer)
China.
Japan.
43. What did the Canadian Pacific Railway symbolize?
Easy access to the West Coast.
What can be achieved by working together.
Unity. (correct answer)
Ribbons of steel.
44. What did the Fathers of Confederation do?
They worked together to establish a new country, the Dominion of Canada (correct answer)
They were explorers who formed an expedition to survey Northern Canada
They formed a republic state in Canada
They were a group of politicians that tried to unite Canada to the United States
45. What do you call a law before it is passed?
A New law.
A Proposed law.
A Bill. (correct answer)
A New proposal.
46. What do you call the Sovereign’s representative in the provinces?
Premier.
Member of the Legislative Assembly.
Lieutenant-Governor. (correct answer)
Senator.
47. What do you mark on a federal election ballot?
The candidate's name.
The number for the candidate.
An "X". (correct answer)
The voter's name.
48. What does Confederation mean?
The United States Confederate soldiers came to Canada.
Joining of communities to become a province.
Joining of suburbs to form a large city.
Joining of provinces to make a new country. (correct answer)
49. What does it mean to say Canada is a constitutional monarchy?
The Sovereign (Queen or King) is the law maker of Canada.
Canada's Head of State is a hereditary Sovereign (Queen or King) who reigns in accordance with the Constitution. (correct answer)
The Sovereign (Queen or King) represents Canadians in Parliament.
The Sovereign (Queen or King) approves bills before becoming law.
50. What does the “right to a secret ballot” mean?
No one should tell you where to vote
A secret vote used by politicians when they are voting on sensitive topics
No one can watch your vote and no one should look at how you voted (correct answer)
Your right to vote in secret on who to appoint to the Senate
51. What does the Canadian flag look like?
Red and white with provincial emblems.
Red and white with a beaver.
White with a red border on each end and a red maple leaf in the centre. (correct answer)
Red with a white maple leaf.
52. What does the term “responsible government” mean?
Each person in each electoral district is responsible for voting.
The Governor General is responsible for the actions of the Prime Minister.
The ministers of the Crown must have the support of a majority of the elected representatives in order to govern. (correct answer)
All Canadians are responsible for each other.
53. What does the word “Inuit” mean?
"Eskimo" in Inuktitut language.
"Home" in English.
"The people" in the Inuktitut language. (correct answer)
"The Arctic Land" in Inuktitut language.
54. What happened at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham?
The Voyagers battled with the British for fur trading rights
Americans fought the United Empire Loyalists during the American Revolution
The British defeated the French marking the end of France's empire in America (correct answer)
The French defeated the British in a battle for Quebec
55. What is a Francophone?
A person who speaks English as their first language
A smartphone designed by the Canadian company RIM
A person who speaks French as their first language (correct answer)
The first phone in Canada, invented by Alexander Graham Bell
56. What is a major river in Quebec?
Fraser River
St. Lawrence River (correct answer)
Niagara
Hudson's Bay.
57. What is a majority government?
When the party in power holds about one third of the seats in the House of Commons
When the party in power holds about one quarter of the seats in the House of Commons.
When the part in power holds at least half of the seats in the Senate.
When the party in power holds at least half of the seats in the House of Commons. (correct answer)
58. What is a voter information card?
Tells you who the candidates are in your electoral district.
Tells you what province to vote in.
A form that tells you when and where to vote. (correct answer)
A form that lets you know your voting time.
59. What is Canada’s national winter sport?
Golf.
Nordic skiing.
Lacrosse.
Hockey. (correct answer)
60. What is Canada’s system of government called?
Dictatorship.
Parliamentary government. (correct answer)
Military Rule.
Communism.
61. What is meant by the equality of women and men?
Men and women are equal under the law. (correct answer)
Men and women must both do housework.
Women may now go to school and enter the professional workforce.
A woman may now become Prime Minister.
62. What is the “head tax”?
Race-based entry fee charged for Chinese entering Canada. (correct answer)
Fee charged for anyone entering Canada after 1900.
A tax imposed on beer beginning in 1867.
Fee charged for moving westward in the early 1900s.
63. What is the capital city of Canada?
Ottawa. (correct answer)
Toronto.
Montreal.
Hull.
64. What is the difference between the role of the Sovereign and that of the Prime Minister?
The Sovereign is Head of State, the Prime Minister oversees provincial policies.
The Sovereign is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms, the Prime Minister selects the Cabinet ministers and is responsible for operations and policy of government. (correct answer)
The Sovereign links Canada to 52 other nations and the Prime Minister is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms.
The Sovereign is the symbol of Canadian sovereignty and the Prime Minister is her aide.
65. What is the government of all of Canada called?
National assembly.
Legislature.
Federal. (correct answer)
Council.
66. What is the highest court in Canada?
The King\'s Bench
The Senate Court of Canada
The Supreme Court of Canada (correct answer)
The Crown Court of Canada
67. What is the highest military honour a Canadian can receive?
Purple Cross.
Badge of Courage.
Order of Merit.
Victoria Cross. (correct answer)
68. What is the largest religious affiliation in Canada?
Catholic. (correct answer)
Muslim.
Jewish.
Hindu.
69. What is the meaning of the Remembrance Day poppy?
To remember our Sovereign, Queen Elizabeth II.
To celebrate Confederation.
To honour Prime Ministers who have died.
To remember the sacrifice of Canadians who have served or died in wars up to the present day. (correct answer)
70. What is the name of the Governor General?
David Johnston.
Mary Simon. (correct answer)
Richard Wagner.
Julie Payette
71. What is the name of the Prime Minister of Canada and his/her party?
Justin Trudeau (Liberal Party). (correct answer)
Pierre Poilievre (Conservative Party).
Jagmeet Singh (New Democratic Party).
Pierre Trudeau (Liberal Party).
72. What is the name of the Royal Anthem of Canada?
O Canada.
God Save the Queen (or King). (correct answer)
La Marseillaise
The Star-Spangled Banner.
73. What is the role of the courts in Canada?
To enforce the law.
To guide people in our society.
To settle disputes. (correct answer)
To express values and beliefs of Canadians.
74. What is the role of the Opposition parties?
To assist the Prime Minister.
To sign bills.
To oppose or try to improve government proposals. (correct answer)
To put forward bills to be passed.
75. What is the significance of the discovery of insulin by Sir Frederick Banting and Charles Best?
Insulin is a hormone that permits you to eat anything you wish.
Insulin has saved 16 million lives worldwide. (correct answer)
Discovering insulin opened the doors to more discoveries.
Discovering insulin made Drs. Banting and Best famous.
76. What part of the Constitution legally protects the basic rights and freedoms of all Canadians?
The British Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights.
The Canadian Charter of Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. (correct answer)
77. What percentage of Aboriginal people are First Nations?
30%.
6%.
50%.
65%. (correct answer)
78. What should you do if you do not receive a voter information card telling you when and where to vote?
Go to the police station.
Call your Member of Parliament.
Assume you cannot vote.
Call Elections Canada or visit their website. (correct answer)
79. What song is Canada’s national anthem?
God Save the King.
O Canada. (correct answer)
Star Spangled Banner.
Amazing Grace.
80. What three oceans border Canada?
Atlantic, Arctic and Bering.
Atlantic, Arctic and Pacific. (correct answer)
Pacific, Indian and Atlantic.
Hudson, Pacific and Atlantic.
81. What was the “Underground Railroad”?
An anti-slavery network that helped thousands of slaves escape the United States and settle in Canada (correct answer)
A railroad through the Rockies that was mainly through mountain tunnels
A network fur traders used to transport beaver pelts to the United States
The first underground subway tunnel in Toronto
82. What was the significance of June 6, 1944 invasion of Normandy?
It led to the establishment of the Juno Awards.
It liberated North Africa from Nazi occupation.
Canadians made a significant contribution to the defeat of Nazism and Fascism in Europe during the Second World War. (correct answer)
It resulted in the forcible relocation of Canadians of Japanese origin.
83. What was the Women’s Suffrage Movement?
The effort by women to achieve the right to vote. (correct answer)
The effort by women to participate in military service.
An unsuccessful movement to get husbands to do housework.
The effort by women to be in Parliament.
84. What will you promise when you take the Oath of Citizenship?
Pledge allegiance to the King, observe the laws of Canada and fulfil the duties of a Canadian. (correct answer)
Pledge to be faithful to the King.
Promise to observe the laws of Canada.
Fulfil duties as a Canadian citizen.
85. What year did Newfoundland and Labrador join Canada?
1867
1955
1949 (correct answer)
1880
86. What year was Confederation?
1867. (correct answer)
1871.
1898.
1864.
87. When asked, who must you tell how you voted in a federal election?
Your employer.
No one. (correct answer)
A police officer.
An Elections Canada official.
88. When did the British North America Act come into effect?
1871.
1898.
1867. (correct answer)
1905.
89. When did the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms become part of the Canadian Constitution?
1867.
1905.
1982. (correct answer)
1878.
90. When is Canada Day and what does it celebrate?
June 15 of each year to celebrate the anniversary of Confederation.
August 8th of each year to celebrate the joining of British Columbia to Confederation.
We celebrate the anniversary of Confederation July 1st of each year. (correct answer)
May 21st of each year to remember Queen Victoria.
91. When is Remembrance Day celebrated?
July 1st
October 1st.
November 11th. (correct answer)
December 25th
92. When must federal elections be held?
About every 4 years.
On the third Monday in October every four years following the most recent general election. (correct answer)
Whenever the Prime Minister calls the election.
When the MPs want a new Prime Minister.
93. When you vote on election day, what do you do?
Go to the voting station, tell them who you are and mark your X. Give the ballot back to the attendant.
Go to the voting station, remove 1 ballot and after marking your X deposit it in the ballot box.
Go to the voting station, take your voter\'s card with proof if identity, highlight your choice on the ballot and deposit it in the box.
Go to the voting station with your voter\'s card and ID, mark an X next to your chosen candidate, fold the ballot and present it to the poll officials who will tear off the ballot number and give you the ballot to deposit in the box (correct answer)
94. Where are the Great Lakes?
Between Ontario and the United States (correct answer)
Manitoba.
Northern Quebec.
Atlantic Canada.
95. Where are the Parliament Buildings located?
Ottawa. (correct answer)
Quebec City.
Hull.
Toronto.
96. Where do most French-speaking Canadians live?
Ontario.
Nova Scotia.
Quebec. (correct answer)
Prince Edward Island.
97. Where does Canada rank in the world’s largest countries?
First
Second (correct answer)
Third
Fourth
98. Which Act granted, for the first time in Canada, legislative assemblies elected by the people?
The Constitutional Act of 1867.
The Constitutional Act of 1791. (correct answer)
The Constitutional Act of 1982.
The Constitutional Act of 2010.
99. Which animal is an official symbol of Canada?
The moose.
The hawk.
The beaver. (correct answer)
The deer.
100. Which country borders Canada on the south?
United States of America. (correct answer)
Central America.
Mexico.
Washington.
101. Which federal political party is in power?
Green Party.
New Democratic Party.
Liberal Party. (correct answer)
Conservative Party.
102. Which of the following is NOT a feature of Canada’s system of government?
A federal state.
Parliamentary democracy.
Constitutional Monarchy.
Dictatorship. (correct answer)
103. Which of the following sentences best describes the War of 1812?
Napoleon's fleet was defeated by the Royal Navy in the war.
The USA became independent from the British Empire after the war.
The USA invaded Canada and was defeated, which ensured that Canada would remain independent of the United States. (correct answer)
Canada joined the United States after the war.
104. Which of the following statements about residential schools is NOT true?
The federal government placed many Aboriginal children in residential schools to educate and assimilate them into mainstream Canadian culture.
The schools were poorly funded and inflicted hardship on the students.
The schools were welcomed by the Aboriginal people. (correct answer)
Aboriginal language and cultural practices were mostly prohibited.
105. Which party becomes the Official Opposition?
The party with the second most MPs. (correct answer)
The party receiving the least votes.
Any independent candidate.
The party the Prime Minister selects.
106. Which party is the Official Opposition at the federal level?
The New Democratic Party.
The Liberal Party.
The Independent Party.
The Conservative Party. (correct answer)
107. Which port is the largest and busiest in Canada?
The Port of Halifax
The Port of Montreal
The Port of Vancouver (correct answer)
The Port of Victoria
108. Which province has its own time zone?
British Columbia
Newfoundland and Labrador (correct answer)
Nunavut
Nova Scotia
109. Which province in Canada is the smallest in land size?
Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward Island. (correct answer)
Yukon Territory.
Newfoundland and Labrador.
110. Which province is the main producer of pulp and paper and hydro-electricity?
Quebec (correct answer)
Ontario
British Columbia
Manitoba
111. Which province is the only officially bilingual province?
New Brunswick. (correct answer)
Quebec.
Ontario.
Prince Edward Island.
112. Which province was split into two at Confederation?
Lower Canada
Newfoundland
Upper Canada
The Province of Canada (correct answer)
113. Which province was the first to grant voting rights to women?
Quebec
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Manitoba (correct answer)
114. Which provincial flag features the fleur-de-lys?
Quebec (correct answer)
New Brunswick
Manitoba
Ontario
115. Which region covers more than one-third of Canada?
Central Canada.
Prairies.
Atlantic Canada.
Northern Territories. (correct answer)
116. Which region is known as the industrial and manufacturing heartland of Canada?
Atlantic provinces.
Prairie provinces.
Central Canada. (correct answer)
West Coast.
117. Which region of Canada is known for both its fertile agricultural land and valuable energy resources?
British Columbia.
Prairie provinces. (correct answer)
Ontario.
Manitoba.
118. Which three countries are signatories to NAFTA?
Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Canada, the United States and Japan.
Canada, Mexico and the United States. (correct answer)
Canada, Denmark and Andorra.
119. Which was the last province to join Canada?
Newfoundland. (correct answer)
Alberta.
Saskatchewan.
British Columbia.
120. Who are the Aboriginal peoples of Canada?
The first European settlers to arrive in Canada
The descendents of the first Australian immigrants to Canada
The first people to live in Canada (correct answer)
The first settlers of Newfoundland
121. Who are the Acadians?
Aboriginal people of the arctic.
French-speaking Catholics living in Ontario.
The descendants of French colonists who began settling in what are now the Maritime provinces in 1604. (correct answer)
English speaking refugees who settled in Louisiana.
122. Who are the founding peoples of Canada?
Métis, French and British.
Aboriginal, Métis and British.
Inuit, Aboriginal and British.
Aboriginal, French and British. (correct answer)
123. Who are the Métis?
The distinct aboriginal people of Atlantic Canada.
A people of mixed Inuit/First Nations ancestry most of whom live on the Prairies.
First Nations people speaking the Michif dialect.
A distinct people of mixed Aboriginal and European ancestry. (correct answer)
124. Who are the Quebecers?
European settlers in the 1600s.
Descendants of the French colonists.
Descendants of the Anglophones.
People of Quebec. (correct answer)
125. Who do Canadians vote for in a federal election?
The best speaker running in the election.
A candidate they want to represent them in Parliament. (correct answer)
Someone to become the Premier.
All of the candidates in their electoral district.
126. Who do Members of Parliament represent?
All of the Canadians living in the north.
Only Canadians living in Central Canada.
Everyone who lives in his or her electoral district. (correct answer)
Canadians living in the province in which he/she was elected.
127. Who had played an important part in building the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR)?
American railroad engineers.
Acadian railroad workers.
Chinese railroad workers. (correct answer)
African American slaves.
128. Who has the right to run as a candidate in federal elections?
Anyone.
A Canadian citizen who is 16 years old.
Any man who is at least 18 years old.
Any Canadian citizen who is at least 18 years old. (correct answer)
129. Who has the right to vote in federal elections?
A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older, and on voters' list. (correct answer)
A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older and must work for the federal government.
A landed immigrant, 18 years old and a memberof the Canadian Forces.
A Canadian citizen, over 25 years and a member of the Canadian Forces.
130. Who have major responsibilities on First Nations reserves?
Band chiefs and councillors. (correct answer)
Municipal governments.
Provincial and territorial governments.
Federal government.
131. Who is Canada’s Head of State?
Governor General of Canada.
His Majesty King Charles III. (correct answer)
Prime Minister.
Lieutenant Governor.
132. Who is considered the father of Manitoba?
John A. Macdonald
Sam Steele
Alfred Boyd
Louis Riel (correct answer)
133. Who is General Sir Arthur Currie?
A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
A great frontier hero.
An explorer of western Canada.
Canada's greatest soldier in the First World War. (correct answer)
134. Who is the Head of Government?
The President
The King
The Governor General
The Prime Minister (correct answer)
135. Who is the King’s representative in Canada?
Prime Minister of Canada.
Premier.
Lieutenant-Governor.
Governor General of Canada. (correct answer)
136. Who is the leader of the Federal Official Opposition Party?
Thomas Mulcair
Andrew Scheer
Pierre Poilievre (correct answer)
Elizabeth May
137. Who led an armed uprising and seized Fort Garry?
John A. Macdonald
Louis Riel (correct answer)
Sam Steele
George-Étienne Cartier
138. Who led Quebec into Confederation?
Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine
Sir George-Étienne Cartier (correct answer)
Sir Wilfrid Laurier
Sir John A. Macdonald
139. Who was Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine?
A champion of democracy and Aboriginal rights.
A champion of democracy and French language rights and the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas. (correct answer)
The first Head of State.
The first French speaking Prime Minister.
140. Who was Sir Sam Steele?
A great frontier hero, Mounted Policeman and soldier. (correct answer)
A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
The first Prime Minister of Canada.
The Father of Manitoba.
141. Who was the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas in 1849?
Sir John A. Macdonald.
Robert Baldwin.
Louis Riel.
Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine. (correct answer)
142. Who was the first Prime Minister of Canada?
Louis Riel.
Sir John A. Macdonald. (correct answer)
Lester B. Pearson.
Abraham Lincoln.
143. Who were the United Empire Loyalists?
Settlers who came to Canada from the United States during the American Revolution. (correct answer)
Aboriginal peoples.
Métis
Inuit.
144. Who were the Voyagers?
Montreal-based traders who travelled by canoe (correct answer)
Immigrants to Canada in the 18th Century
Explorers searching for the North-West Passage
Geographers who first charted the coastline of British Columbia
145. Why is the battle of Vimy Ridge important?
It was a key position of the German line in Northern Spain.
Canadian Corps secured its reputation for valour and bravery. (correct answer)
It was the "hinge" of the German line as it protected the newly constructed Hindenburg line.
Once Canadians fought at Vimy they knew they would be heading home.
146. Why is trade with other countries important to Canada?
It enhances our standard of living.
It makes it easier for us to travel to foreign countries.
It enhances our economy and raises our standard of living. (correct answer)
It brings in cheaper goods.
Provincial Questions
147. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Quebec?
Dominique Anglade
Marc Tanguay (correct answer)
Jean-Marc Fournie
Philippe Couillard
148. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Quebec?
Honourable Pierre Duchesne
Honourable Jean-Louis Roux
Honourable Martial Asselin
Honourable J. Michel Doyon (correct answer)
149. What is the capital city of Alberta?
Medicine Hat.
Red Deer.
Calgary.
Edmonton. (correct answer)
150. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Alberta?
Rachel Notley. (correct answer)
Brian Jean.
Heather Forsyth.
Jim Prentice.
151. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Alberta?
Donald S. Ethell.
Salma Lakhani. (correct answer)
Adrienne Clarkson.
Lois Mitchell.
152. What is the name of the Premier of Alberta?
Premier Rachel Notley.
Premier Jason Kenney.
Premier Danielle Smith. (correct answer)
Premier Stephen Harper
153. Which political party is in power in Alberta?
New Democratic Party.
Liberal Party.
Green Party.
United Conservative Party (correct answer)
154. Which three natural resources are important to Alberta’s economy today?
Oil, agriculture, and forestry. (correct answer)
Oil, tourism, and fishing.
Oil, coal, and hydroelectricity.
Oil, coal, and forestry.
155. Name the federal electoral districts in Richmond, British Columbia.
Richmond has two federal electoral districts: Richmond North and Richmond South
Richmond has two federal electoral districts: Richmond East and Richmond West
Richmond has two federal electoral districts: Richmond and Richmond South.
Richmond has two federal electoral districts: Richmond Centre and Steveston-Richmond East (correct answer)
156. Name the members of Parliament for Richmond, British Columbia and the parties they belong to (Richmond Centre, Steveston-Richmond East respectively).
Alice Wong (Conservative), Kenny Chiu (Conservative)
Joe Peschisolido (Liberal), Kerry-Lynne Findlay (Conservative)
Wilson Miao (Liberal), Parm Bains (Liberal) (correct answer)
Greg Halsey-Brandt (Liberal), Geoff Plant (Liberal)
157. Name the Members of the Legislative Assembly for Richmond, British Columbia and the parties they belong to (Richmond North Centre, Richmond South Centre, Richmond-Steveston, and Richmond-Queensborough respectively).
Rob Howard (Liberal), Linda Reid (Liberal), John Cummins (Conservative), and John Yap (Liberal).
Teresa Wat (BC United), Linda Reid (Liberal), John Yap (Liberal), and Jas Johal (Liberal).
Olga Ilich (Liberal), Henry Yao (NDP), Jas Johal (Liberal), and John Yap (Liberal).
Teresa Wat (BC United), Henry Yao (NDP), Kelly Greene (NDP), and Aman Singh (NDP) (correct answer)
158. Name three city councillors for Richmond, British Columbia.
Malcolm Brodie, Derek Dang and Ernie Novakowski
Lyn Greenhill, Kiichi Kumagai and Lily von Hendron
Michael Wolfe, Chak Au and Carol Day (correct answer)
Ken Johnston, Bill McNulty and Harold Steves
159. What is the capital city of British Columbia?
Vancouver.
Prince George.
Victoria. (correct answer)
New Westminster.
160. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in British Columbia?
Adam Olsen
Kevin Falcon (correct answer)
John Horgan
Andrew Wilkinson
161. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of British Columbia?
David Lam
Janet Austin (correct answer)
Adrienne Clarkson
Judith Guichon
162. What is the name of the Mayor of Richmond, British Columbia?
Mayor Richard Lee
Mayor Bill McNulty
Mayor Linda McPhail
Mayor Malcolm Brodie (correct answer)
163. What is the name of the Premier of British Columbia?
Premier Adrian Dix
Premier David Eby (correct answer)
Premier John Horgan
Premier Christy Clark
164. Which political party is in power in British Columbia?
New Democratic Party (correct answer)
Liberal Party
Social Credit Party
Green Party
165. Which three natural resources are important to British Columbia’s economy today?
Forests, water and grain crops.
Forests, fish and water. (correct answer)
Fish, oil and water.
Coal, water and shipbuilding.
166. Why is British Columbia known as Canada’s Pacific Gateway?
Most new imigrants arrive at Vancouver International Airport.
British Columbia is the closest province to the Far East.
Billions of dollars in trade goods are handled through the Port of Vancouver. (correct answer)
British Columbia borders the Pacific Ocean.
167. What is the capital city of Manitoba?
Winnipeg (correct answer)
Grand Rapids
Portage la Prairie
Brandon
168. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Manitoba?
Rana Bokhari
Heather Stefanson (correct answer)
Wab Kinew
Brian Pallister
169. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Manitoba?
Honourable Anita Neville (correct answer)
Honourable Peter Liba
Honourable Philip Lee
Honourable Janice Filmon
170. What is the name of the Premier of Manitoba?
Premier Heather Stefanson
Premier Wab Kinew (correct answer)
Premier Brian Pallister
Premier Sterling Lyon
171. What three industries are important to Manitoba’s economy today?
Farming, mining and fishing
Agriculture, mining and hydro-electric power generation (correct answer)
Fishing, tourism and mining
Forestry, fishing and energy
172. Which political party is in power in Manitoba?
Manitoba Party
Liberals
Progressive Conservative
New Democratic Party (correct answer)
173. What is the capital city of New Brunswick?
Victoria
Winnipeg
Fredericton (correct answer)
Montreal
174. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in New Brunswick?
Victor Boudreau
Denis Landry
Susan Holt (correct answer)
David Alward
175. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick?
Honourable Brenda Murphy (correct answer)
Honourable Gilbert Finn
Honourable Marilyn Trenholme Counsell
Honourable Graydon Nicholas
176. What is the name of the Premier of New Brunswick?
Premier Bernard Lord
Premier Blaine Higgs (correct answer)
Premier David Alward
Premier Brian Gallant
177. What three industries are important to New Brunswick’s economy today?
Forestry, hydro-electric power generation, oil
Fisheries, oil, tourism
Atlantic trade, fishing and oil
Forestry, agriculture and mining (correct answer)
178. Which political party is in power in New Brunswick?
Liberals
New Brunswick Party
New Democrats
Progressive Conservative (correct answer)
179. What is the capital city of Newfoundland and Labrador?
Charlottetown
Chimney Tickle
St. John's (correct answer)
St. Pierre et Miquelon
180. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Newfoundland and Labrador?
David Brazil
Tony Wakeham (correct answer)
Paul Davis
Dwight Ball
181. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Newfoundland and Labrador?
Honourable Frank F. Fagan
Honourable Edward Roberts
Honourable John Crosbie
Honourable Judy May Foote (correct answer)
182. What is the name of the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador?
Premier Andrew Furey (correct answer)
Premier Dwight Ball
Premier Kathy Dunderdale
Premier Tom Marshall
183. What three industries are important to Newfoundland and Labrador’s economy today?
Fisheries, oil and gas extraction (correct answer)
Fisheries, tourism, forestry
Shipbuilding, fisheries and mining
Tourism, mining and forestry
184. Which political party is in power in Newfoundland and Labrador?
NFL Party
New Democrats
Liberal Party (correct answer)
Progressive Conservative
185. What is the capital City of Nova Scotia?
Shearwater
Halifax (correct answer)
Dartmouth
Devon
186. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Nova Scotia?
Darrell Dexter
John MacDonell
Zach Churchill (correct answer)
Jamie Baillie
187. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Nova Scotia?
Honourable John James Grant
Honourable Myra Freeman
Honourable Mayann Francis
Honourable Arthur J. LeBlanc (correct answer)
188. What is the name of the Premier of Nova Scotia?
Premier Darrel Dexter
Premier Stephen McNeil
Premier Tim Houston (correct answer)
Premier Rodney MacDonald
189. What three industries are important to Nova Scotia’s economy today?
Fisheries, shipbuilding and forestry
Forestry, mining and tourism
Coal mining, forestry and agriculture (correct answer)
Tourism, movies and shipbuilding
190. Which political party is in power in Nova Scotia?
New Democrats
Progressive Conservative (correct answer)
Liberal
Nova Scotia Party
191. What is the capital City of the Northwest Territories?
Fort Simpson
Hay River
Fort Providence
Yellowknife (correct answer)
192. What is the name of the Commissioner of the Northwest Territories?
Honourable Margaret Thom (correct answer)
Honourable Tony Whitford
Honourable Daniel L. Norris
Honourable Glenna Hansen
193. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in the Northwest Territories?
None (correct answer)
George Braden
Don Morin
Nellie Cournoyea
194. What is the name of the Premier of the Northwest Territories?
Premier Bob McLeod
Premier Caroline Cochrane (correct answer)
Premier Joe Handley
Premier Jim Antoine
195. Which political party is in power in the Northwest Territories?
Yukon Party
Liberals
Governed by consensus (correct answer)
New Democrats
196. What is the capital City of the Nunavut?
Sinaa
Iqaluit (correct answer)
Nipisa
Mivvik
197. What is the name of the Commissioner of Nunavut?
Honourable Peter Irniq
Honourable Ann Meekitjuk Hanson
Honourable Eva Aariak
Honourable Nellie Taptaqut Kusugak (correct answer)
198. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Nunavut?
Don Morin
Joe Handley
None (correct answer)
Eva Aariak
199. What is the name of the Premier of Nunavut?
Premier Paul Okalik
Premier Floyd Roalnd
Premier Joe Savikataaq
Premier P.J. Akeeagok (correct answer)
200. Which political party is in power in Nunavut?
Progressive Conservative
Liberal
Nunavut Party
Governed by consensus (correct answer)
201. What is the capital city of Ontario?
Kingston
Ottawa
Toronto (correct answer)
London
202. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Ontario?
Andrea Horwath
Marit Stiles (correct answer)
Peter Tabuns
Dalton McGuinty
203. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Ontario?
James Bartleman
Elizabeth Dowdeswell (correct answer)
David C. Onley
Belinda Stronach
204. What is the name of the Premier of Ontario?
Premier Doug Ford (correct answer)
Premier Jack Layton
Premier Kathleen Wynne
Premier Mike Harris
205. What three industries are important to Ontario’s economy today?
Mining, fishing, automobile manufacturing
Mining, tourism, automobile manufacturing (correct answer)
Farming, tourism, fishing
Automobile manufacturing, tourism, fishing
206. Which political party is in power in Ontario?
Green Party
Liberal Party
Progressive Conservative Party (correct answer)
New Democratic Party
207. What is the capital City of the Prince Edward Island?
Cornwall
Stratford
Charlottetown (correct answer)
Georgetown
208. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Prince Edward Island?
Hal Perry (correct answer)
Jamie Fox
Steven Meyers
Peter Bevan-Baker
209. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Prince Edward Island?
Honourable Antoinette Perry (correct answer)
Honourable H. Frank Lewis
Honourable Barbara Oliver Hagerman
Honourable Léonce Barnard
210. What is the name of the Premier of Prince Edward Island?
Premier Wade MacLauchlan
Premier Dennis King (correct answer)
Premier Pat Binns
Premier Joe Ghiz
211. Which political party is in power in Prince Edward Island?
Progressive Conservative (correct answer)
New Democrats
Liberals
Union Nationale
212. What is the capital City of the Quebec?
Beauport
Quebec City (correct answer)
Montreal
Chicoutimi
213. What is the name of the Premier of Quebec ?
Premier Lucien Bouchard
Premier Pauline Marois
Premier Francois Legault (correct answer)
Premier Philippe Couillard
214. What three industries are important to Quebec’s economy today?
Tourism, mining and forestry
Pulp and paper, forestry and hydro-electric power (correct answer)
Films, fishing and mining
Forestry, shipping and tourism
215. Which political party is in power in Quebec?
Coalition Avenir Québec (correct answer)
Parti libéral
Parti Quebecois
Union Nationale
216. What is the capital city of Saskatchewan?
Regina (correct answer)
Avonlea
Glenavon
Fort Qu'Appelle
217. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Saskatchewan?
Ryan Meili
Carla Beck (correct answer)
John Nilson
Cam Broten
218. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan?
Honourable Dr. Gordon L. Barnhart
Honourable Vaughn Solomon Schofield
Honourable Russ Mirasty (correct answer)
Honourable Lynda Maureen Haverstock
219. What is the name of the Premier of Saskatchewan?
Premier Lorne Calvert
Premier Brad Wall
Premier Scott Moe (correct answer)
Premier Len Taylor
220. What three industries are important to Saskatchewan’s economy today?
Forestry, films and tourism
Fishing, mining and agriculture
Mining, oil production and forestry
Farming, mining and natural gas (correct answer)
221. Which political party is in power in Saskatchewan?
NDP
Saskatchewan Party (correct answer)
Progressive Conservative
Social Credit
222. What is the capital city of Yukon Territory?
MacRae
Crestview
Whitehorse (correct answer)
Riverdale
223. What is the name of the Commissioner of Yukon Territory?
Honourable Doug Phillips
Honourable Angélique Bernard
Honourable Adeline Webber (correct answer)
Honourable Douglas Bell
224. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Yukon Territory?
Trevor Harding
Currie Dixon (correct answer)
Stacey Hassard
Arthur Mitchell
225. What is the name of the Premier of Yukon Territory?
Premier Dennis Fentie
Premier Bob McLeod
Premier Ranj Pillai (correct answer)
Premier Sandy Silver
226. Which political party is in power in Yukon Territory?
Progressive Conservatives
New Democrats
Liberal (correct answer)
Yukon Party